# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess:

<table><thead><tr><th width="245.33333333333331">Criterion</th><th width="248">Description</th><th>Result</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>2</td><td>User perspective should closely follow the game character across the level. Implementing the side scrolling view to relate to retro style games.</td><td>A expected</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>The game enemies should track the player's character and attack it automatically once it is within range. The Twines will have a much longer range than the Grunts, since the Grunts will be stuck moving in between boundaries and the Twines will be stationary.</td><td>As expected</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>The game should run smoothly and should not crash too often.</td><td>As expected</td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>The game should not include any content which will exceed a PEGI rating of 7.</td><td>As expected</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Criterion 2

For this test, I decided to try and move in the most unexpected way possible. This included jumping randomly through teleporters and trying to fall off of the map. However, my game passed all tests for this criterion.

### Criterion 3

For this test, I decided to try different player positions to see how the Twines would react. When performing this test, I discovered some logic errors in my code which impacted the user experience. These are listed below:

1. The Twines would sometimes shoot at the player even if they were off-screen. This caused the game to end much sooner than expected so therefore the range needed to be adjusted.
2. Occasionally, the Twines would shoot and their bullets would be stopped by the platform they were standing on. I had to edit the code to allow the bullets to pass through.

### Criterion 9

For this test, I decided to try and put the game under as much stress as possible. This included unusual inputs and trying to do things that the page wasn't prepared for. This test turned out to be particularly useful since it highlighted some key bugs in my programming. These issues are listed below:

1. The teleporters couldn't be used to travel backwards through the maps. I wanted the user to experience true freedom in the game and therefore had to fix this problem.
2. If timed correctly, you are able to balance on top of the Grunts. You'll then be carried by them without dying.

### Criterion 12

For this test, I decided to use [<mark style="color:blue;">https://pegi.info/what-do-the-labels-mean</mark>](https://pegi.info/what-do-the-labels-mean) to ensure that my game was appropriate for the specified audience. As expected, my game passed this test with no problems.
