# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Mechanics

<table><thead><tr><th width="92">ID</th><th width="234">Criteria</th><th width="283">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>There should be functioning collision detection implemented into the game.</td><td>Collision detection will the stop the player's character from leaving the map and entering out of bounds areas. This will also be necessary since there will be gravity in the game to make it more realistic.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#maps-and-levels"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Maps and Levels</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>User perspective should closely follow the game character across the level. Implementing the side scrolling view to relate to retro style games.</td><td>Utilising a side scrolling view will mimic a retro style game to further enhance the User experience.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#2d-view."><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a 2D V</mark></a><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#2d-view"><mark style="color:blue;">iew</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>The game enemies should track the player's character and attack it automatically once it is within range. The Twines will have a much longer range than the Grunts, since the Grunts will be stuck moving in between boundaries and the Twines will be stationary.</td><td>Having enemies which are automatically hostile will force the player to engage with the opponents and develop their combat skills in the game.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#opponents"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Opponents</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>The character should be able to move around the map, their actions controlled by the User's keystrokes.</td><td>Having a game without moving the character would not be a popular game at all. It would also make the objective of the game impossible.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Controls</mark></a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Design and Aesthetics

<table><thead><tr><th width="97">ID</th><th width="229">Criteria</th><th width="286">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>5</td><td><p>A total of 2 levels, both with contrasting environments. The first will have a tropical environment and the second will have a desert tundra style environment.</p><p></p><p>Each level should have a clear design and structure, allowing the User to clearly understand the objective.</p></td><td>This should reduce any confusion that the User may encounter while playing the game, hence improving the experience.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#maps-and-levels"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Maps and Levels</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>Bright, vivd colours should be used to create an emphasis on important game factors. </td><td>This will also help with the impression that the game put on the player. Use of a variety of colours can make to player feel more immersed, happy and relaxed while playing the game.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#opponents"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Opponents</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>The game opponents should be sufficiently animated and designed so that they are distinguishable from eachother and the player's character.</td><td>Having distinguishable characters in my game will be key, this is because it will allow the player to react accordingly depending on the foes that they encounter.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#opponents"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Opponents</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>The game should include a fully functioning health bar to inform the User of their character's health level.</td><td>Health bars can be very important to take into account when making in-game decisions.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-character"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Player Character</mark></a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Game Performance and User Interface

<table><thead><tr><th width="90">Id</th><th width="231">Criteria</th><th width="291">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>9</td><td>The game should run smoothly and should not crash too often.</td><td>Games which crash very frequently can be extremely frustrating to play and can create negative impressions. Games which stutter and do not run smoothly also do this.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#graphics-quality"><mark style="color:blue;">1.4a Graphics Quality</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Easy-to-use game controls should be implemented to assist with the User's experience. Using common keybindings such as WASD.</td><td>The WASD keys are often used in video games. Therefore, Users may already be familiar with the controls, allowing them to get a grasp of the game in less time.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls."><mark style="color:blue;">1.4</mark></a><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls"><mark style="color:blue;">a Controls</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>Simple, easy-to-navigate game menu.</td><td>The game menu should allow the User to begin playing the game, exit the game and pause the game. After the User has completed the first level, they should be presented with the menu and have the option to continue to the next level or to quit the game.</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Non-functional Criteria

These are features which are not descriptions of functionality. They are more like suitability, such as age rating appropriateness, or performance of algorithms/response times for UI etc.

<table><thead><tr><th width="92">ID</th><th width="229">Criteria</th><th width="288">Justification</th><th width="141">Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>12</td><td>The game should not include any content which will exceed a PEGI rating of 7.</td><td>I will only include 'unrealistic violence' in my game. This should allow me to keep it to a PEGI 7 to broaden my playerbase.</td><td><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md#pegi-ratings"><mark style="color:blue;">1.2 PEGI Ratings</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>The game utilises an appropriate soundtrack which adds to the experience of the game.</td><td>The correct soundtrack can magnificently transform a game from average to exceptional. Only the correct track can do this, which is why I will be experimenting with multiple.</td><td><a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#celeste"><mark style="color:blue;">1.3 Soundtracks</mark></a></td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>The game should mitigate boredom.</td><td>One of the main aims for my game is for it to alleviate boredom. Boredom and lonliness is a massive problem in the world today and I hope that my game will help to combat this.</td><td><a href="1.1-problem-identification.md"><mark style="color:blue;">1.1 Problem Identification</mark></a></td></tr></tbody></table>

